#**Project Overview**

Over the past four weeks, forty-six students with a strong interest in STEM from all over the country have participated in the pilot MIT Beaver Works Mini Grand Prix Challenge. Teams learned the basics of the algorithms involved in autonomous driving and used them to program RACECARs (Rapid Autonomous Complex-Environment Competing Ackermann-steering Robots). On August 5 the program culminated in a final competition to demonstrate everything that students learned.

2016 is the pilot year of this program, created in large part by Dr. Bob Shin of Lincoln Laboratories. He saw a need for an engineering and robotics summer program, and Beaver Works Summer Institute (BWSI) was born. The program is based upon the MIT class 6.141, RSS (Robotic Science and Systems), and essentially compresses the material of that course into an intensive month long period. The amount of information covered made for a rigorous pace and exciting program for all involved.

Monday through Friday, program participants would work in the Daniel Guggenheim Aeronautical Laboratory (MIT Building 33) from 9:00am to 5:00pm. Most mornings started with a technical lecture to prepare students for the lab that immediately followed. Every day right before lunch there was also a guest seminar speaker, usually a STEM professional. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, after lunch, Ms. Jane Connor would give a lecture on communication and teamwork. The rest of the day was devoted to more lab time during which students worked in groups of five to six, writing and testing code for the RACECARs.

The focus of the first week was on learning the basics of ROS, Linux, and Python, and taking the first steps in applying these skills through basic movement in our RACECARS. Students also learned about control systems that could be used to make the cars accomplish specific goals. In the final challenge of the week, cars raced side by side, following either the left or right wall, proceeding as fast and efficiently as possible.

The content during the second week primarily concerned “blob detection,” or, recognizing different colored sheets of paper and making decisions based on the color, shape, or size of the blob. Groups utilized the RACECAR’s ZED camera to capture images and used open CV to manipulate them. The week finished with a difficult challenge in which cars had to detect a red or green blob, drive towards it until they were a certain distance away, then, based on the color of the blob, turn left or right and "wall follow."

The third week was originally supposed to cover localization and mapping, but, due to problems with software plans changed slightly. The technical lectures still covered those topics, but the labs focused on more reactive navigation; we built upon what we learned in the previous two weeks and programmed our cars to drive around a pen and avoid obstacles without use of a map, while simultaneously detecting different colored blobs. In the final challenge, the RACECAR’s had to drive around autonomously for two minutes and detect as many red, green, yellow, and blue blobs as possible, while avoiding any collisions.

Finally, in week four the teams prepared for the exhibition day and grand prix race. Teams had to showcase code that they had written each week. Race day consisted of two technical challenges; the first was a “move and explore challenge” similar to week three’s final task, and the second was “make the correct turn,” similar to week two’s task. In addition to these challenges, the cars had to complete three time trials, one heat race against two other cars, and a final race with all nine cars on the grand prix race track.

By the end of the program, students gained confidence in ROS, Python, and Linux. They learned about and implemented many algorithms that are used by companies like Tesla and Google to program real autonomous vehicles. In addition, participants gained valuable robotics experience and learned about how to be successful when working in groups. The seminars from experts in various STEM fields showed students the many directions one can go if he or she is interested in engineering and technology, and it was truly an amazing opportunity to get to hear such varied experts speak. The MIT Beaver Works Summer Institute was an incredible opportunity that greatly benefited all who had the privilege to attend.
